README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://travis-ci.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings"><img alt="Build Status" src="https://travis-ci.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?branch=master"></a>
<a href="https://coveralls.io/github/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings?branch=master"><img alt="Coverage Status" src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings/badge.svg?branch=master"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/fse"><img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/fse"></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings/context:python"><img alt="Language grade: Python" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/python/g/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/psf/black"><img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg"></a>
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/license/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?style=flat"><img alt="License: GPL3" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?style=flat"></a>
</p>

Fast Sentence Embeddings (fse)
==================================

Fast Sentence Embeddings is a Python library that serves as an addition to Gensim. This library is intended to compute *sentence vectors* for large collections of sentences or documents. 

**Disclaimer**: I am currently working full time. Unfortunately, I have yet to find time to add all the features I'd like to see. Especially the API needs some overhaul and we need support for gensim 4.0.0. If you want to support [fse](https://forms.gle/8uSU323fWUVtVwcAA), take a quick survey to improve it :-)

Features
------------

Find the corresponding blog post(s) here:

- [Visualizing 100,000 Amazon Products](https://towardsdatascience.com/vis-amz-83dea6fcb059)
- [Sentence Embeddings. Fast, please!](https://towardsdatascience.com/fse-2b1ffa791cf9)

**fse** implements three algorithms for sentence embeddings. You can choose
between *unweighted sentence averages*,  *smooth inverse frequency averages*, and *unsupervised smooth inverse frequency averages*. 

Key features of **fse** are: 

**[X]** Up to 500.000 sentences / second (1)

**[X]** Supports Average, SIF, and uSIF Embeddings

**[X]** Full support for Gensims Word2Vec and all other compatible classes

**[X]** Full support for Gensims FastText with out-of-vocabulary words

**[X]** Induction of word frequencies for pre-trained embeddings

**[X]** Incredibly fast Cython core routines 

**[X]** Dedicated input file formats for easy usage (including disk streaming)

**[X]** Ram-to-disk training for large corpora

**[X]** Disk-to-disk training for even larger corpora

**[X]** Many fail-safe checks for easy usage

**[X]** Simple interface for developing your own models

**[X]** Extensive documentation of all functions

**[X]** Optimized Input Classes

(1) May vary significantly from system to system (i.e. by using swap memory) and processing.
I regularly observe 300k-500k sentences/s for preprocessed data on my Macbook (2016).
Visit **Tutorial.ipynb** for an example.

Things I will work on next:

**[ ]** MaxPooling / Hierarchical Pooling Embedding

**[ ]** Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search for SentenceVectors




Installation
------------

This software depends on NumPy, Scipy, Scikit-learn, Gensim, and Wordfreq. 
You must have them installed prior to installing fse. Required Python version is 3.6.

As with gensim, it is also recommended you install a BLAS library before installing fse.

The simple way to install **fse** is:

    pip install -U fse

In case you want to build from source, just run:

    python setup.py install

If building the Cython extension fails (you will be notified), try:

    pip install -U git+https://github.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings

Usage
-------------

Within the folder nootebooks you can find the following guides:

**Tutorial.ipynb** offers a detailed walk-through of some of the most important functions fse has to offer.

**STS-Benchmarks.ipynb** contains an example of how to use the library with pre-trained models to
replicate the STS Benchmark results [4] reported in the papers.

**Speed Comparision.ipynb** compares the speed between the numpy and the cython routines.

In order to use the **fse** model, you first need some pre-trained gensim 
word embedding model, which is then used by **fse** to compute the sentence embeddings.

After computing sentence embeddings, you can use them in supervised or
unsupervised NLP applications, as they serve as a formidable baseline.

The models presented are based on
- Deep-averaging embeddings [1]
- Smooth inverse frequency embeddings [2]
- Unsupervised smooth inverse frequency embeddings [3]

Credits to Radim Řehůřek and all contributors for the **awesome** library
and code that [Gensim](https://github.com/RaRe-Technologies/gensim) provides. A whole lot of the code found in this lib is based on Gensim.

In order to use **fse** you must first estimate a Gensim model which contains a
gensim.models.keyedvectors.BaseKeyedVectors class, for example 
*Word2Vec* or *Fasttext*. Then you can proceed to compute sentence embeddings
for a corpus.

	from gensim.models import FastText
	sentences = [["cat", "say", "meow"], ["dog", "say", "woof"]]
	ft = FastText(sentences, min_count=1, size=10)

	from fse.models import Average
	from fse import IndexedList
	model = Average(ft)
	model.train(IndexedList(sentences))

	model.sv.similarity(0,1)

fse offers multi-thread support out of the box. However, for most
applications a *single thread will most likely be sufficient*.

To install **fse** on Colab, check out: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qq9GBgEosG7YSRn7r6e02T9snJb04OEi 

Results
------------

Model | [STS Benchmark](http://ixa2.si.ehu.es/stswiki/index.php/STSbenchmark#Results)
:---: | :---:
`CBOW-Paranmt` | **79.85**
`uSIF-Paranmt` | 79.02
`SIF-Paranmt` | 76.75
`SIF-Paragram` | 73.86
`uSIF-Paragram` | 73.64
`SIF-FT` | 73.38
`SIF-Glove` | 71.95
`SIF-W2V` | 71.12
`uSIF-FT` | 69.4
`uSIF-Glove` | 67.16
`uSIF-W2V` | 66.99
`CBOW-W2V` | 61.54
`CBOW-Paragram` | 50.38
`CBOW-FT` | 48.49
`CBOW-Glove` | 40.41

Changelog
-------------

0.1.15 from 0.1.11:
- Fixed major FT Ngram computation bug
- Rewrote the input class. Turns out NamedTuple was pretty slow. 
- Added further unittests
- Added documentation
- Major speed improvements
- Fixed division by zero for empty sentences
- Fixed overflow when infer method is used with too many sentences
- Fixed similar_by_sentence bug

Literature
-------------

1. Iyyer M, Manjunatha V, Boyd-Graber J, Daumé III H (2015) Deep Unordered 
Composition Rivals Syntactic Methods for Text Classification. Proc. 53rd Annu. 
Meet. Assoc. Comput. Linguist. 7th Int. Jt. Conf. Nat. Lang. Process., 1681–1691.

2. Arora S, Liang Y, Ma T (2017) A Simple but Tough-to-Beat Baseline for Sentence
Embeddings. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (Toulon, France), 1–16.

3. Ethayarajh K (2018) Unsupervised Random Walk Sentence Embeddings: A Strong but Simple Baseline.
Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP. (Toulon, France), 91–100.

4. Eneko Agirre, Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Iñigo Lopez-Gazpio, Lucia Specia. Semeval-2017 Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity Multilingual and Crosslingual Focused Evaluation. Proceedings of SemEval 2017.


Copyright
-------------

Author: Oliver Borchers <borchers@bwl.uni-mannheim.de>

Copyright (C) 2019 Oliver Borchers

Citation
-------------

If you found this software useful, please cite it in your publication.

	@misc{Borchers2019,
		author = {Borchers, Oliver},
		title = {Fast sentence embeddings},
		year = {2019},
		publisher = {GitHub},
		journal = {GitHub Repository},
		howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings}},
	}

Commit message:

V0.1.17 (#51)
* Updated readme

* Updated gitignore

* Travis for all branches

* Fixed setup.py

* Updated gitignore

* blacked

* Updated travis

* Fixed travis branches

* Updated ci for PR checks

* Fixed Typing Issue

* Removed 3.10 build

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://travis-ci.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings"><img alt="Build Status" src="https://travis-ci.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?branch=master"></a>
<a href="https://coveralls.io/github/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings?branch=master"><img alt="Coverage Status" src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings/badge.svg?branch=master"></a>
<a href="https://pepy.tech/project/fse"><img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/fse"></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings/context:python"><img alt="Language grade: Python" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/python/g/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/psf/black"><img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg"></a>
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/license/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?style=flat"><img alt="License: GPL3" src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings.svg?style=flat"></a>
</p>

Fast Sentence Embeddings (fse)
==================================

Fast Sentence Embeddings is a Python library that serves as an addition to Gensim. This library is intended to compute *sentence vectors* for large collections of sentences or documents. 

**Disclaimer**: I am working full time. Unfortunately, I have yet to find time to add all the features I'd like to see. Especially the API needs some overhaul and we need support for gensim 4.0.0.

I am looking for active contributors to keep this package alive. Please feel free to ping me at <o.borchers@oxolo.com> if you are interested.

Audience
------------

This package builds upon Gensim and is intenteded to compute sentence/paragraph vectors for large databases. Use this package if:
- (Sentence) Transformers are too slow
- Your dataset is too large for existing solutions (spacy)
- Using GPUs is not an option.

The average (online) inference time for a well optimized (and batched) sentence-transformer is around 1ms-10ms per sentence.
If that is not enough and you are willing to sacrifice a bit in terms of quality, this is your package.


Features
------------

Find the corresponding blog post(s) here (code may be outdated):

- [Visualizing 100,000 Amazon Products](https://towardsdatascience.com/vis-amz-83dea6fcb059)
- [Sentence Embeddings. Fast, please!](https://towardsdatascience.com/fse-2b1ffa791cf9)

**fse** implements three algorithms for sentence embeddings. You can choose
between *unweighted sentence averages*,  *smooth inverse frequency averages*, and *unsupervised smooth inverse frequency averages*. 

Key features of **fse** are: 

**[X]** Up to 500.000 sentences / second (1)

**[X]** Supports Average, SIF, and uSIF Embeddings

**[X]** Full support for Gensims Word2Vec and all other compatible classes

**[X]** Full support for Gensims FastText with out-of-vocabulary words

**[X]** Induction of word frequencies for pre-trained embeddings

**[X]** Incredibly fast Cython core routines 

**[X]** Dedicated input file formats for easy usage (including disk streaming)

**[X]** Ram-to-disk training for large corpora

**[X]** Disk-to-disk training for even larger corpora

**[X]** Many fail-safe checks for easy usage

**[X]** Simple interface for developing your own models

**[X]** Extensive documentation of all functions

**[X]** Optimized Input Classes

(1) May vary significantly from system to system (i.e. by using swap memory) and processing.
I regularly observe 300k-500k sentences/s for preprocessed data on my Macbook (2016).
Visit **Tutorial.ipynb** for an example.


Installation
------------

This software depends on NumPy, Scipy, Scikit-learn, Gensim, and Wordfreq. 
You must have them installed prior to installing fse.

As with gensim, it is also recommended you install a BLAS library before installing fse.

The simple way to install **fse** is:

    pip install -U fse

In case you want to build from source, just run:

    python setup.py install

If building the Cython extension fails (you will be notified), try:

    pip install -U git+https://github.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings

Usage
-------------

Within the folder nootebooks you can find the following guides:

**Tutorial.ipynb** offers a detailed walk-through of some of the most important functions fse has to offer.

**STS-Benchmarks.ipynb** contains an example of how to use the library with pre-trained models to
replicate the STS Benchmark results [4] reported in the papers.

**Speed Comparision.ipynb** compares the speed between the numpy and the cython routines.

In order to use the **fse** model, you first need some pre-trained gensim 
word embedding model, which is then used by **fse** to compute the sentence embeddings.

After computing sentence embeddings, you can use them in supervised or
unsupervised NLP applications, as they serve as a formidable baseline.

The models presented are based on
- Deep-averaging embeddings [1]
- Smooth inverse frequency embeddings [2]
- Unsupervised smooth inverse frequency embeddings [3]

Credits to Radim Řehůřek and all contributors for the **awesome** library
and code that [Gensim](https://github.com/RaRe-Technologies/gensim) provides. A whole lot of the code found in this lib is based on Gensim.

In order to use **fse** you must first estimate a Gensim model which contains a
gensim.models.keyedvectors.BaseKeyedVectors class, for example 
*Word2Vec* or *Fasttext*. Then you can proceed to compute sentence embeddings
for a corpus.

	from gensim.models import FastText
	sentences = [["cat", "say", "meow"], ["dog", "say", "woof"]]
	ft = FastText(sentences, min_count=1, size=10)

	from fse.models import Average
	from fse import IndexedList
	model = Average(ft)
	model.train(IndexedList(sentences))

	model.sv.similarity(0,1)

fse offers multi-thread support out of the box. However, for most
applications a *single thread will most likely be sufficient*.

To install **fse** on Colab, check out: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qq9GBgEosG7YSRn7r6e02T9snJb04OEi 

Results
------------

Model | [STS Benchmark](http://ixa2.si.ehu.es/stswiki/index.php/STSbenchmark#Results)
:---: | :---:
`CBOW-Paranmt` | **79.85**
`uSIF-Paranmt` | 79.02
`SIF-Paranmt` | 76.75
`SIF-Paragram` | 73.86
`uSIF-Paragram` | 73.64
`SIF-FT` | 73.38
`SIF-Glove` | 71.95
`SIF-W2V` | 71.12
`uSIF-FT` | 69.4
`uSIF-Glove` | 67.16
`uSIF-W2V` | 66.99
`CBOW-W2V` | 61.54
`CBOW-Paragram` | 50.38
`CBOW-FT` | 48.49
`CBOW-Glove` | 40.41

Changelog
-------------

0.1.17:
- Fixed dependency issue where you cannot install fse properly
- Updated readme
- Updated travis python versions (3.6, 3.9)

0.1.15 from 0.1.11:
- Fixed major FT Ngram computation bug
- Rewrote the input class. Turns out NamedTuple was pretty slow. 
- Added further unittests
- Added documentation
- Major speed improvements
- Fixed division by zero for empty sentences
- Fixed overflow when infer method is used with too many sentences
- Fixed similar_by_sentence bug

Literature
-------------

1. Iyyer M, Manjunatha V, Boyd-Graber J, Daumé III H (2015) Deep Unordered 
Composition Rivals Syntactic Methods for Text Classification. Proc. 53rd Annu. 
Meet. Assoc. Comput. Linguist. 7th Int. Jt. Conf. Nat. Lang. Process., 1681–1691.

2. Arora S, Liang Y, Ma T (2017) A Simple but Tough-to-Beat Baseline for Sentence
Embeddings. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (Toulon, France), 1–16.

3. Ethayarajh K (2018) Unsupervised Random Walk Sentence Embeddings: A Strong but Simple Baseline.
Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Representation Learning for NLP. (Toulon, France), 91–100.

4. Eneko Agirre, Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Iñigo Lopez-Gazpio, Lucia Specia. Semeval-2017 Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity Multilingual and Crosslingual Focused Evaluation. Proceedings of SemEval 2017.


Copyright
-------------

Author: Oliver Borchers

Copyright (C) 2021 Oliver Borchers

Citation
-------------

If you found this software useful, please cite it in your publication.

	@misc{Borchers2019,
		author = {Borchers, Oliver},
		title = {Fast sentence embeddings},
		year = {2019},
		publisher = {GitHub},
		journal = {GitHub Repository},
		howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/oborchers/Fast_Sentence_Embeddings}},
	}
